# RG LANDSCAPING WEBSITE
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yvykWdGPxGw>
#### Description:
For my cs50 project I decided that I would take the route of creating and developing my own website. The website itself is my fathers website who does landscpaing as well as gardening. The website is to become more marketable as well as be able to expand more of the buisness. There are many elements within it that relate to cs50 as well as a little bit outside of cs50. From creating my own domain and being able to host my website to the world wide web to using google map API in order to implement a way to showcase to potential customers. There are many different things that I learned and I did them in many differtent ways.
To begin with, what to create in the actual project itslef? There were many choices that I was debating with from creating a mobile app to perhaps creating my very own game. But the route that I eventually deciced to take was to create my own website that displays my fathers buisness to potential customers. When I brought up the idea to my mother, who didn't even know I was doing CS50, she was very delighted as she expressed to me how she was looking to create a website for my fathers buisness for some time. With this in mind and getting specific implementation details from her I got to work. 
The first step in creating the webiste was looking at bootstraps and its templates. I wanted a template that would look good for the buisness and representing what my mother envisioned. The template that I chose specifally was a green and modern type template that has many html functionalitys. I decided to go with this template as I though it looked the best as well as the fact that it looked clean and nice. Looking back at my choices now, I felt that I made the correct and best decison and deciding as it ended up being the best choice for me. At the beginning the template had lost of things into which could be seen as a good thing, but for me it meant that it would be alot of work as the purpose was just to display what my father had done for his job. I looked at the documentation of the tempalte and understood the classes and css that came with it. One thing I also kept it mind was that the template was free which meant I could do whatever it is I wanted with it with no cost at all. Utilizing the portfolio detail html files that were inside of the folder I made quick work in deciding what I wanted to do. With creating mutiple html pages for each "job" that my father wanted to display for the portfolio segment. Along with this, I simply edited the index.html file where it corrosponded with each page of the portfolio that was linked to the details page. The template that I chose was also good for providing hyperlinks to differnt social media such as twitter(now X), instagram, facebook, etc. Since my mother has already created a facebook account for the buisness, all I had to do was input the link in the "#" place holder. 
After editing the template itself, along with the html files that came with it, another aspect of assembling the webiste was simply to get the pictures from my father in order to showcase it to the website. My father sent me mutiple before and after pictures of various jobs that he thought looked the best throughout the span of a couple of years. All of which I on full display on the website. While it was a good idea that he sent me as much pictures as possible in order to showcase whatever it was he wanted to represent as a buisness, implementing them into the website, itself was a daunting task. Especially with the fact that I had to implement mutiple html files that each had two pictures a before and after along with a picture for the index.html which was the one where potential customers would actually look at. I could have done javascript where I included each portfolio detail page in index.html but didn't for the reason that I didn't feel that confortable along with the fact that I wanted everything to be organized in its own page if I wanted to add specific changes all I would have to do is just go to that specific html page. After I was done implementing the pictures along with making changes to the orgininal template in order to make it corrposond to how I wanted it to look and function the next thing was actually getting it on the internet.
The process of getting a website to the internet was an extremley new experience as I had never done it before. During CS50 I had obviously had done flask run, using the flask libary in python along with http-server from the cs50 libary, but hosting the website with dns functionality was something thtat I wasen't sure how and why it was going to work. Originally I had conducted reserach by youtube in which I was just looking at how to research and decided to use github pages in order to host my website since the repositary was already on github. However there were some techincal difficulties when hosting the website which at the time I had though was due to Github being slow. I had came to this conclusion at the time due to the fact that I went and ultizied the cs50 discord server for input as to why I was getting the 404 error. When hosting the website on Github I was getting a 404 meaning that Github was unable to find the file in which the index.html was in. I know now this was due to the fact that I had everything in one folder which made github unable to process index.html since it wasen't already at face-value. But at the time since this was a new experience my brain didn't know much and so I went and looked for another site to host my website. Looking at the notes from week 10 from cs50 apart from github, netlify was another web host that was reccomended and so I went on there and before you know it, I was getting the same 404 message from netlify as Github once did to me. I realized that perhaps the problem maybe due to the way that everything was organized in the repo so I went to the trusty cs50 discord and looked to see if anyone was willing to help. Thankfully another user by the name "oh hello" was able to guide me in knowing how to push the contents in github out of the folder so that netlify is able to host it. After sucessfully being able to host the website the next and final step of the project would be to get my very own custom domain name.
Like with hosting my very own website, creating my own custom domain name was also a challenge as I was like a little baby crawling into the streets of London nowhere to start and unsure what to do next, but with the hosting of the website, I first started with reserach in which I found a video on youtube that was using google domains in order to get a domain. But as the video was about a year old, google domains now became squarespace domains and so I was using squarespace to get my domain. However there were some difficulties in trying to get the domain as squarespace was using NS1 for its domain DNS which meant that when inputting it onto Netlify it was unable to get it since Netlify uses the same one. In order to solve this problem I had two choices, either go and do some technical work in creating my own DNS address route or perhaps call NS1 to try and get them to remove it. I did neither. Instead I just canceled the domain since squarespace gives a full refund within five days of registering. Instead I went to Netlify and hosted the domain through there. In the end, everything worked out fine, and my father got a free website that showcases his hardwork. Incase you were wondering the domain that we settled on and the one thats avaliable on the internet as I type this is www.gardenoc.com, thank you for reading.